---

title: Generating a dataset for custom OpenAI models using ChatGPT
subtitle: an AI training another AI being a crypto Community Manager
cover_image:
tags:
  - ai
  - openai
  - chatgpt
  - gpt3
  - gpt

---

## Introduction

AI is now on hype and everyone is trying to use it in their projects. Im sure for next couple of months there will be millions of startups with AI in their name. 

But lets first talk a little bit about AI and how it works.

I will not cover the basic ChatGPT here because there's now millions of articles about it.

## OpenAI API


OpenAI API made possible to enter the AI world for everyone.  


## Custom models in OpenAI (Fine-tuning)


GPT-3 is a general solution for text tasks. It covers a wide range of tasks, but it's not perfect for every task. That's why OpenAI released a new API that allows you to fine-tune GPT-3 for your specific task. This is called custom models.

OpenAI fine-tuning requires a dataset in JSONL (JSON Lines) format. Im sure you didnt hear about it before, but its a simple format for storing data, very similar to JSON.

This is the example of a basic dataset for training a custom model for a chatbot that will understand user's mood in parsable format:

```json
{"prompt": "User: Hello, how are you?\nBot:", "completion": " mood=good;"}
{"prompt": "User: I'm feeling sad\nBot:", "completion": " mood=bad;"}
{"prompt": "User: I'm feeling happy\nBot:", "completion": " mood=good;"}
{"prompt": "User: I'm feeling angry\nBot:", "completion": " mood=bad;"}
```

Why am i adding whitespace at the beginning of completion? Because it's a good practice that is recommended in OpenAI docs [here](/#)

## Generating a dataset using ChatGPT

Now lets talk about the theme of this article - generating a dataset for custom OpenAI models using ChatGPT.

As we already know the format in which we want to generate a dataset, we can give ChatGPT an example of a dataset and ask it to generate a new one.

## Training a model with a python CLI

To train a model we need to use a python CLI. You can install it using pip:

```bash
pip install chatgpt
```

Now lets upload a training dataset to the OpenAI API:

```bash
chatgpt upload --file dataset.jsonl --name my_dataset
```

Now we can train a model using the dataset we just uploaded:

```bash
chatgpt train --dataset my_dataset --name my_model
```

Wait until the model is trained. It will take from 5 mins to couple hours depending on your luck (as i noticed).

## Testing the model

Now lets enter the OpenAI Playground to test our model.

## Conclusion

With a little bit of creativity - ChatGPT can be even used to come closer to a full AI singularity.